all right here we go grant cardone
welcome back to flat TV man I'm glad to
be in your place this time yeah yeah you
get to check out our New York office
yeah it's awesome
it's awesome yeah well you actually
reached out to us this time I'm kind of
flattered yeah man because look I love
that interview we did last time and your
audience is different than mine and a
lot of a lot of the people that follow
you are like they're either really
turned on about it or turned off about
it but I think a lot of people started
thinking about okay you know how do you
play the IRS how do you how do you play
the money game and nobody knows nobody
teaches assists so I say let me go back
to see the big V man and and we we
educate or piss off his audience some
more well I think the thing that I
appreciated most in our interview last
time is that so many people try to sell
people a dream and say like you don't
need a good job to start investing in
real estate you can start with zero
money down and churn and you know become
rich after a few years and you said look
if you want to make real money you guys
got to do 32 units commercial you know
uh multi unit and you don't need a whole
bunch of cash up front in order to do it
and if you don't want to if you can't do
that then don't even bother yeah it's
just look at you're gonna end up having
another job that doesn't pay you
anything like if you hate the
minimum-wage job you have now you're
gonna hate the next one more you know
I'm saying like people are trying to get
ahead by having two and three jobs that
don't pay anything just cuz you
supposedly own something which means you
got a mortgage on it that you don't own
and even if you did pay it off you still
got to make the property taxes just
because it makes a little bit of money
doesn't mean it makes sense yeah and I
could tell you I have a close friend
who's a real estate developer in DC and
I ran some of the numbers by him and I
said well Grant said you know cuz I'm
not a real estate guy you know I said
well grand said you should start with at
least 32 units if you want to get into a
real real estate business and he said
well actually I feel it's a hundred oh
bucket you know 32 was cool too I could
totally have that argument like like you
once you do one hundred you'll never go
back to 32 it's like you know you know
what's that saying so like once you once
you do
scale it be like Amazon saying or
Blackstone saying they're gonna buy my
business they're like dude we would
never do that again
you know that we're gonna buy we're
getting about 50 billion at a time we're
not gonna bother with a little company
and this was the point of that like now
a lot of people just check out as you
know Vlad on this they just get pissed
off and say well I can't do that because
I don't have the money okay I didn't
have the money either
I started with one deal bought a deal
put three grand down I bought a deal
with a budget it was like I was going to
the to Whole Foods to buy groceries how
much can we afford I got two hundred on
me something about two hundred dollars
worth of you you can't do that with
an investment and I did that and then
that three grand was making me two
hundred bucks a month I thought I was
going to be great I thought everything
was gonna be beautiful there's no reason
for me to tell this story except to
share with people one deal does not work
because the moment they moved out I was
negative I got scared I dumped the
property i shouldn'ta dumped it but I
had to because I didn't have the cash
flow and didn't have the courage and
didn't have the knowledge that the
market would turn around and then I
would get it rented I got terrified that
that deal today is probably worth 450
grand and it and I put $3,000 down his
horse it's gone up five times but if you
can't keep it that's the problem with
the stock market for me you know I
couldn't keep Apple stock through the
ups and downs I never get to 258 right
so you haven't bought any stock since
our last interview huh
not a one dude oh well I failed I mean I
can't do it I can't do it because like I
Drive around here this this you know
it's just too easy it's too easy to
about $250 where the stock could still
not know what you got I got you I got
you well after doing our last interview
this was the number one kind of
complaint comment that I kept seeing
over and over again and that's this when
you said that buying your home is a dumb
idea
yeah people
think the reason you're saying that it's
because you own a bunch of rental
property and you're trying to trick
people into not owning anything so they
can come rent with you oh yeah that's
what I'm doing why not like look it you
know the only people that are trying to
make sense of a house or people that
that are either trying to sell you a
house I'm not trying to sell anybody
anything like I'm trying to help people
create financial freedom for themselves
there's not one report in the history of
the world seven billion people of anyone
creating financial freedom because they
bought a house Jamie Dimon right here
he's on what he's on CNBC this morning
talking about how great the economy is
and the stock markets going up and the
economy is gonna be great over the next
hundred years he's not thinking about
people buying a house when he says that
stuff he's thinking about his rich
friends for flying Gulf streams and
Global's and and you know these are the
richest people on the planet these
people don't even talk about the house
they bought Don Donald Trump down the
street
he buys a house he don't buy one house
he buys the whole building and lives in
it now the everyday god that's like well
I can't do that man I can I can buy a
little bit of the American Dream by
buying my house and you know one day
it'll be paid off go fly over san paulo
sao paulo brazil you're going to see so
many vertical erected buildings I
thought they were all office buildings
it's not office buildings it's all
Residential's millions of people living
in little boxes in the sky under the
belief that they're gonna own that that
it's gonna someday one day be worth a
bunch of money it's not going to be
worth a bunch of money it's trapping
people people are making their biggest
investment in their home when they
should be making that same investment in
themselves or their business not other
real estate by the way shouldn't be real
estate should be in themselves or an
idea or a business that produces cash
flow or real estate
that produces cashflow well
Airbnb is a kind of the newest thing
right now when it comes to the real
estate market so a lot of people are
feeling like okay I'm gonna buy a house
and I'm gonna air B&B it out from your
point of view is that a real business or
are you just spinning the wheels I think
it's going to be I think it's a economic
opportunity right now that will last so
I don't think it lasts I don't think I
think all travel travel and stay
demands a good economy so if I go back
to 2010 I know some guys that are making
a bunch of money in the educational
Airbnb business they're educating people
how to do what you just talked about I
don't know a lot of people making a lot
of money doing it but I do know a lot of
people educating people about how to
make a lot of money doing it so in the
economy when the economy fell apart in
2010 you know this first thing that went
is hotels travel airlines spending money
period like people quit traveling
businesses quit sending their
salespeople out on the road everything
got everything went back home and that
the same thing that air B&B this money's
got to become it's these night stays
have to be coming from somewhere so when
I come to New York I either stay at the
Peninsula the Four Seasons Marriott one
of the hotels in the area right the
plaza or oh wow I'm gonna go air B&B now
I'm gonna go stay in somebody's home but
if I don't come to New York for business
anymore because the economy gets crushed
guess what everybody gets hurt the
peninsula the Four Seasons the the plaza
they got money though they get they can
stay but the air B&B God that depended
upon Airbnb travel all of a sudden that
guy gets whacked and he can't get his 80
bucks today that his models built on
half the year blah blah blah he did the
math and he's only got one unit again
you're still stuck with a you're stuck
with a business that does not have
dependable cash flow and a business is
only as valuable as the dependent the
the cashflow is dependable yeah it's a
great point it's a great point you
touched on this with what you just said
but a lot of people feel the recession
is coming in 2000 2020 do you feel
that's true or do you think that this is
just people overreacting like they do oh
I wouldn't doubt if we're not in it
right now flat like you know I watch
these guys on Wall Street talk about how
great the economy is for who man who's
it great for I got 175 employees that
work for me down in Miami 80 or 90 of
them without even doing a survey I know
80 or 90 are having trouble and I take
care of people I I paid people fairly
but I can only pay people so much the
cost of living in mostly cities is so
high this city like whacked ridiculous
the cost of living after taxes after
renting a place after the cost of food
and transportation and insurance and
like it's so high and in companies not
paying more money like we have the
lowest unemployment that we've had it 50
years maybe since I've been alive wages
should be just soaring straight up and
they're not so so I so so why not like
the rich are getting richer and
everybody else's has had zero experience
to the upside right we actually posted
about an article which is kind of
mind-blowing I'll hold on a second let
me just pull this up this was actually
on Bloomberg and they said the richest
1% of Americans are about to surpass the
total wealth or the middle class yes
yeah yeah it's crazy how crazy is that
when you say it I was crazy
it's insane you're talking about massive
massive shifts transfers of wealth now
the question is in always asses who's
got my money this is what your viewers
should be looking asking themselves
right now who's got my money and you
should be pissed off about it you
should be like who's got my money not in
a form of protests but but but from a
hunt standpoint you know I was 25 years
old and I was broke I had no money but I
got pissed off about it I'm like who's
got my money man who's got who's got
what I want who's got my dream who's got
my business and that's what people need
to ask themselves today the wealthy are
getting wealthier because the wealthy
played by a different set of rules than
everybody else the Americans the middle
class they're buying homes this goes
back to the home point they're buying
homes they're buying cars they buy
country club memberships if they can
afford them
they send their kids to good schools
they borrow money to go to college they
save their cash and they invest in
retirement accounts those are basically
the seven themes of the middle class and
it ain't working for the wealthy do none
of those things okay they they don't
borrow money to go to college they send
their kids to the best college and said
hey don't worry about learning
anything but meet the Obamas okay make
sure you meet meet the people with the
right names number two they don't worry
about buying houses they buy businesses
they don't save cash they know it's
trash
and and they invest in companies and
they'll do whatever it takes to get rich
like that is the priority is to create
wealth for themselves and their families
and they don't invest in retirement
accounts well you talked about a lot of
deals last time in our interview and you
know you mentioned your first deal of
buying a single-family house and dealing
with one renter who moved out it you
know you ended up bailing out of it
apart from that when you look at your
bigger deals what was the worst deal you
ever had worst deal I ever had that I
did or that I didn't do that you did
okay worst deal that I did I did
probably a deal I bought I bought a deal
three years ago called her on point 32
million it was it was it was in exchange
so meaning meaning I had a bunch of
profit made on another deal I'd sold in
South Carolina I had about twenty three
million dollars of profits to shelter so
I moved part of that into an exchange
it's very kind of 1031 fairly
complicated it's simple but it becomes
complicated when the when the tick tock
when the clock starts going okay you're
down to three days and you got to
identify then two days then one day and
then you're like no I got to pull the
trigger
so I bought a deal knowing that there
wasn't gonna be a lot of upside but that
I would protect my tax exchange and I
kept that deal for thirty four months
this is a bad deal kept it for thirty
for just under thirty four months we had
I think in that deal maybe four million
dollar a four million dollar profit on
that deal short of that maybe just short
of four million okay so when you sold it
you made four million off the deal uh
let me see is that right it might be
might yeah it's shy four million dollars
that I made on that deal it cash flowed
like eight percent a year so it wasn't
it wasn't typical what I would expect
from the deal is like a twenty five
percent return over three years about
eight percent a year I didn't lose any
money I didn't lose my exchange I did
have a profit but did it's not a it
wasn't a scorching score and I didn't
love the property okay so out of all the
property you ever bought you never had a
sell to sell at a loss I've never sold
an apartment dealer the loss really why
is that because they all cashflow also
as long as about look if I have if I
have even through even through the
recession okay through the through the
worst recession as long as I have cash
flow okay when the market tilts and
there's no buyers they're like okay I'm
not boot moving I know there's a good
deal out in the marketplace but I'm not
moving right now because I'm uncertain
and that'll come that's probably you
know in the next year or two the
activity will drop because of certainty
will drop so I won't be able to trade my
property because there'll be fewer
buyers in the marketplace fewer buyers
means the price goes down the offers go
down I don't want to sell it I don't
want to lose money
so as long as I'm cash flowing paying my
debt and my expenses as long as I'm cash
flowing I just wait that thing out I
wait the cycle out in this case I had
something else I wanted to buy there
were some other reasons I wanted to
exchange out I'll look back probably
later and say dude I should have waited
and not sell that property right but you
have situations where areas just get
messed up like you look at Detroit yeah
yeah totally who would have known that
the car companies were all gonna move
away who would have known about the
Flint water crisis like disasters
happened
they are unexpected and you have
communities you go like Baltimore and
you have whole blocks or boarded-up yeah
at one point that was a thriving
community people bought those houses and
market value yeah and expected to keep
them for you know for years to come and
now they had to walk away from them yeah
you've never had a situation where you
bought up an apartment complex and the
area just started to go into decline
no first they'll ever bought it first
deal I was ever bought you're describing
but it was one house they didn't have
any income like nobody should be buying
real estate in Detroit you should nobody
should be buying real estate where
there's snow if there's snow on the
ground like go south those jobs are
moving like people when you invest money
in real estate you need to pay it like
any business like the tech business like
I don't know that I'd go invest a bunch
of money at Ford Motor Company I think
there's a better chance that Ford Motor
Company goes away than stays so so I
want to be around major hospitals okay
very very hard to take a hospital down
like thriving hospitals not not not just
a hospital but go to go get housing
around major thriving hospitals even if
you go to Baltimore Detroit I'll bet you
there's some of that some of that urban
tight around hospitals where nurses have
to be doctors have to be they won't get
rid of that completely right but on the
outskirts of Detroit man they just got
destroyed because the jobs left yeah so
when I go and look at Houston Texas I
look at Tampa Orlando Miami
even the Mobile Alabama's the Atlanta
Georgia all this migration is happening
and the more dumb that New York and
New Jersey and California does the more
it just pushes all of these people to
migrate to where there's a less tax
burden yeah I feel you I mean we have a
house in LA I mean we rent but we're
looking at Atlanta yeah taxes is one of
the main reasons well ballplayers are
doing it I guarantee you when LeBron
moved to LA I guarantee he made a
decision about taxes in his contract to
say hey you got to offset this move
right well it's this last time you were
here I interviewed an Pena are you
familiar with Dan yeah I know Dan okay
he said he coached 25 billionaires over
the the course of his life and he talked
about some of the common traits what do
you think is consistent in terms of
personality type Oh easy first of all 98
percent of the high performers on the
planet have one thing in common they're
introverts Bill Gates is an introvert
Warren Buffett's an introvert early on
Elon Musk was an introvert about okay
only 2% are loud mouth alpha males like
me okay Nonie but the post the
introverts and the alpha males focus
obsession like OCD
I mean laser beam focus they you know
they would rather there's a black
hip-hop guy I forget his name it says
unless you want success like you want
oxygen in your lungs the and I've been
rich and I've been pouring there's no
comparison I mean Elon Namie takes it
back he said 15 18 years ago I would
rather commit seppuku which is Harry
Caray kill myself than be poor and not
successful okay so it's really the laser
being for correct from your point of
view what is the trait of a billionaire
look I've never coached any billionaire
so I hung out with one for about 90 days
they definitely they definitely think
about money differently you know there's
almost this throwaway kind of like I'm
not worried about that anymore did Dan
name any the the billionaires that he's
coached he did not yeah it's a lot of
billionaires dude I think there's only
like I mean that means he's like he's
touched like you know a third or
something of all the billionaires on the
planet yeah it's a lot of billionaires
so so common traits uh successful can-do
attitude I'm gonna figure this out I'm
not gonna quit willing to go bankrupt
not acting like middle-class people they
never act like middle-class like they
don't care where they lived they're like
I live I live wherever I got to live
dropouts courage never quit no
matter what willing to change and adapt
don't listen to the common everyday
person go into debt dump their
retirement accounts if they ever had one
like burnt burned the midnight oil work
100 hour weeks yeah I mean you're
basically listing out the the things you
mentioned in the 10 X book and I want to
get to that look I didn't I haven't
coached billionaires but but I read I
read about enough of them to say hey
what is the common trait in these guys
you know the Elon must talks about
working 100 hours Warren Buffett study
he reads four hours a day look if I go
out out on the street corner right now
and ask people hey do you like to read
books most people be like I don't have
time to read I don't like to read I
don't want to read but here's the old
man third richest guy in the world says
hey I read four hours a day might be
something people want to do if they
haven't given up in their financial
security right right I mean my whole
financial life is really based on more
above it yeah I try I try to read as
much as possible well
since our last interview I did a little
bit of research and I found that you did
an interview with Jordan Belfort yeah
yeah the wolf of Wall Street and this in
turned into the equivalent of like a rap
beef with finance guys afterwards is
that is that a fair assessment of what
happened well he's not a finance guy
well I mean a financial guy he's not a
financial guy he's a criminal
he's a convicted criminal that didn't
pay back the people he ripped off and
he's a rat on top of being a
criminal is a rat turned on his own
people to reduce his his time so he's a
criminal
ripped off a bunch of people admits that
he ripped off a bunch of people never
paid the people back and ratted and
ratted out his boys so you can't give
him dude he operates out of a little
apartment with six interns did he 1099s
Hawking a $495 product that don't sound
like a banker to me yeah I actually
looked up his net worth Z yeah - 30 -
100 million level - 100 million yeah you
gotta take advice from a guy that's
negative 100 million would you
sir your guys she was I mean you went on
a show yeah I did why it was set up with
my staff in Miami it was in it was a bad
probably a bad idea but you know I'm
like let me just go in there if I could
challenge him to a cage match well uh
you said in the interview he was talking
about the real world you said in your
real world everyone was using drugs in
my real world in his real world real
world everyone's using drugs oh yeah I
mean you saw that in the movie yeah I
mean the whole movie is pretty much him
being high the home look it wasn't a
movie about that about his life story we
wouldn't know who the dude is like what
else is there is that
is that your claim to fame he'snot yeah
I don't want that to be my legacy okay I
got a 185 employees I'm trying to go to
a thousand he keeps asking me a question
about how to sell a pen and I'm like
dude I'm over that story like you're 50
years old you got to elevate the game at
some point ask a new question how do you
buy a pen company how do you replace a
pen how do you make sure a pins never
sold again on this planet elevate the
game son
otherwise you're gonna die an old
salesman with a negative net worth of a
minus 100 million you put out an
interview recently on your own channel
and it was one of your employees
interviewing you
yeah Jared that's my god Jarrod okay and
part of the interview focused on your
total net worth and you pulled out
various accounts and you know started
going through various things if you were
to just take a step back and take a
bird's eye view what would you say your
telling that worth is I don't know man
well I like it's crazy it's what's it
based on tell me what what net worth
what would you say a net worth is based
on now it's a tough one because I own a
company and I don't really know how much
the company is worth right I can look at
what's in my investment account I can
look at certain assets like let's say
jewelry or art and kind of add those
together yeah yeah once you get to the
companies it becomes kind of fuzzy
because you have to find a buyer for the
company more to be truly net worth yeah
and probably probably more buyers for
the company than their art and the
jewelry yeah you know so I don't know
pay 400 grand for the watch it's
probably worth 200 today so I know I'm
worked at least 200 grand cause I paid
cash that's a Richard Mille
yeah probably go to AVI here probably
give me half of what I paid for it yes
or what is this is the whole argument
about the net worth thing okay yeah I
know you're gonna get a big headliner
like Cardone talks about his network
it's great because people love that
yep so look that
sheet of paper I was looking at had a
bunch of cash in it I know that's real
that's real I could go grab that I know
there's a couple of bags hidden around
the world you know I could go grab the
three bags there's some guns and ammo I
know where that stuff is there's 1500
accounts receivables from companies that
I could I could go to a bank and borrow
against there are 6500 apartments with
addresses and tenants so 6500 times
eighteen hundred dollars I don't know
that's eleven or twelve million bucks a
month it's worth something to somebody
plus the the real estate what my wife's
over here doing math for me like she's
counting on her fingers too by the way
so you know I got my wife and my kids
man I got my brand I don't even know
what my good luck my brand is like
Jordan Belfort his net worth based on
his brand that did he stole money from
people that that cost you
everything in the future no major
company would ever hire a krumper
convicted criminal okay I've worked for
some of the biggest companies on the
planet Morgan Stanley's hired me like
why because my brand is good so I don't
know what my good will is if I quit
cursing and quit taking on other people
and and punching people out in the face
on YouTube I'd probably have a better
brand you know you know the fact that I
put 35,000 people in an event last year
in Miami you know that gives people a
lot of confidence about my ability to
fill out a stadium yeah Congrats on that
yeah yeah I should have you speak their
1 year man I got you whatever you want
okay and there's a lot of a lot of
stories about Scientology there's
documentaries there's there's you know
just a lot of information that's going
back since like the 80s what made you
become a Scientologist I read the book
Dianetics when I was 25 years old right
out of a treatment center and that book
helped me understand why I was used to
drugs so much and actually helped me in
my recovery process
then I went and did when I was 45 years
old I actually had an experience because
of a friend of mine that had been
studying Scientology he was a bond
trader and he was one of the most
successful bond traders in the United
States and I'm like hey what what you
know what you seem different than
everybody else I meet and he's like well
if you want to know what it is I'll tell
you I said well what is it he said to
Scientology I said where is it when is
it and how can I get some of it and at
that time the only thing I had done at
that time was reading a book Dianetics
and I was living in San Diego at the
time he was living in Houston I got an
appointment to go to the church in San
Diego set I went in there asked him hey
what do you do here exactly
forget the media at the CNN the tabloids
it didn't matter to me that John
Travolta and Tom Cruise or Scientologist
that meant nothing to me like I didn't
give a I'm like all I wanted to
know what can you guys do from it and
the guy looked at me says what do you
want to handle what do you want to
handle with your life and at that time I
was 45 years old had a single I wanted a
wife I wanted kids that wasn't happening
I was not I was not in a good place to
be a family man I didn't I was scared of
it I was actually terrified of that kind
of commitment I own three businesses at
the time I had a little bit of money but
I didn't know what to do with the money
ok this was just 15 16 years ago so if
you look at the trajectory of my life
since I was 45 years old you're gonna
see like it's gonna be slowly going
upward and then all sudden straight up
and I have been there now for 15 years
I've done courses books auditing thing
called auditing that has given me so
much peace in my life so much more
confidence personal confidence I used to
be scared of everything I don't have
that anymore
well when you look to some of the
documentaries about Scientology you go
into certain different levels right and
there is a highest level that you could
achieve and the thing that I found kind
of a bit strange the based on l ron
Hubbard's writings is it at the highest
level he reveals something called Xenu
and I'll go ahead and read this so yeah
it's all it's all it's ridiculous about
right it's a I'm just tonight I can you
I don't know do you want to know five
million you want to know for me yeah
most people are having trouble with
yesterday and today so you're gonna read
off some crazy unbelievable that
nobody cares about because they're
worried about their families today their
kids today their bills today and their
future tomorrow so I didn't go there to
handle anything about trillions
of years ago I seem like a pretty pretty
practical guy I care about
taking care of my wife my kids and my
life and I don't go to the media or the
tabloids and I don't Google
to find out what it is I listen to a guy
that was a very successful bond trader
say hey man this helped me make good
decisions day to day and I'm gonna tell
you I've been down there sixteen years
half the I've seen on the internet
about Scientology 90% of the I've
seen on the internet about Scientology
is complete garbage it's helped
me in my life personally I have a
beautiful marriage two beautiful kids
I'm a good father today I'm dependable I
had three employees dude when I walked
in there okay I got a 185 in Miami I got
another 150 in the real estate I owned a
handful of houses of apartments in when
I was in San Diego maybe 200 units own
6500 today so it's been a game-changer
for me that's all I can tell you
now people want to get their information
from Google and some documentary like
that the documentary they did of Michael
Jackson somebody asked me if I watched I
said why would I watch a guy he can't
defend himself I'm not gonna watch yet
I'm not gonna watch one side of a story
well if Scientologist ever made a
documentary to respond to all that yeah
sant it's called Scientology TV okay
there you go okay so you feel that
Scientology is one of the keys to your
success not not did I get I would give I
would give what I've done there there's
$19 course I'm doing a finance course
they have there right now it's $19 that
when I read that that finance course on
the way down to New York by the way it
took me maybe three hours to do the
whole course you can do it online I went
to account I spent five years to get an
accounting degree I learned more in this
little course a little course pack this
big then I learned in five years of
college hey man forward for you I'm all
for it well for it your wife is a
Scientologist also yes she is okay your
kids well they're eight and ten so
that'll be up to them okay so let's talk
about your book the 10x rule which
actually I actually own that book before
we did the interview and I didn't even
remember that that you didn't know was
me yeah I didn't know it was you it was
you know as I was I do books by audible
I do audiobooks that that's my thing I
was with them this morning yeah I mean
cuz I'm able to read books at like 2 or
2.5 speed yeah I could just kind of whiz
through it really quickly so I mean a
very interesting book how many copies
have you sold so far of that I don't
know I think the audio downloads in the
video far exceed the books though okay
but it's been a New York Times
bestseller and everything I don't know
if that book hit there I know well if
you're not first you're last is on the
New York Times bestsellers list I don't
know if the 10x rule hit the list you
know it's a weird list when it to get
that it's only over the opening week
okay well you had you had some
interesting points in it you had like
four common mistakes the first one is
setting your sights too low
I remember Richard Branson said
something similar that he basically says
look if your goal is to make a hundred
thousand this year make your goal a
million you may not hit the million but
you'll probably surpass the hundred
thousand yeah is that pretty much what
you're saying yeah the the basis is is
that because we underestimate challenges
and things that are gonna happen
disappointments and discouragements
because we miscalculate the downside and
the struggle most people come up short
on their targets and I believe and I
think Richard was saying the same thing
here is that if you just if you just
literally come up with a different
target ten times bigger target just as
an arbitrary number if you picked a
target ten times bigger number one you
will have a different plan to achieve a
million than you would a hundred and
number two you will probably exceed your
original goal by many even though you
come up short on the million well you
also talked about people underestimate
how much action was required and
spending too much time competing not
enough time dominating their sector
explain that so look I made this mistake
for twenty years by the way that book
and all the books that I've read it's me
trying to solve a problem I'm trying to
solve my own problems and the 10x rule
was I was at that time I've been in
business for 20 years kept struggling
working hard doing all the right things
but could not get ahead literally could
not find a way to get ahead of the game
and felt like I was always a little
behind not sure about what I was doing
so the premise there is I was I was
calculating what it would take to get me
in a in a place when you're trying to do
this when you're trying to build
anything you're you're doing it for the
first time there's not a lot of
direction or
and it's around you and so I'm looking
around other people as my measurement if
you will hey how am i doing compared to
them
and I was doing better than most other
people so I thought I was doing good but
it still didn't give me the freedom I
wanted and so I said what is the
repeated mistake I keep making it it was
I was competing with the guys on the
side of me I was comparing myself to
their movement and when I finally
dropped that and said hey I'm going to
go dominate this space I'm gonna own it
until I'm gonna spend more I'm gonna be
in more places I'm gonna do what they
won't do until at which point they will
surrender some of their turf to me
so the concept of their dominate the
space don't just compete with the people
at your level well in the book you also
said you either accomplish your goals
and dreams or you'll be used to
accomplish someone else's goals and
dreams yeah that's true
you you know if you're you're either
working somebody else's dreams which is
nothing wrong with that you got to help
somebody else you can't make your own
dreams come true if you can't make
somebody else's country but but if if
you're not dreaming right if you're not
dreaming about how to be better how to
excel how to find another level then
you're gonna get stale in your job
anyway and you're gonna be used up in
that space like a like a clog in a wheel
you just be consumed by the system so
the person that is always valuable in
the system of the economic system is the
person is continually to create out
create and then deliver more than they
promised whoever they're around whether
it's an investor the boss until at which
points to the boss to the investor says
hey let's give you a new position here
well Nick Cannon who's a regular guest
on my show and you know he's worth
hundreds of millions of dollars a bunch
of successful projects one after another
and we were kind of debating in our last
interview about people hustling and so
forth and people being bosses and this
then he said well glad you got to
realize not everyone's a hustler some
people just want to pay their bills and
die
I believe in hustling I believe like
okay look Jax and everybody doesn't have
that serious and you know just because
some people are designed and be you work
you're right you have you soldier I had
a great run as DJ at one point I
realized hey I'm getting too old for
this
I can't I can't I'm not gonna keep
supporting myself by doing these Club
gigs and so forth it's time for me to
switch up and do something completely
different
yeah that's where the video cut from a
different cloth like everybody doesn't
have that engine noise
I respect hustles I don't I don't
respect people but you journey of the
world that middle-class that we were
talking about their employees I would
say that's the majority of the world
wouldn't you say I was having this
conversation today I asked myself this
all the time I think I think most people
have given up on the game honey well I
think I think most people I think I
think a lot of people that hate on the
game right now have given up on it
that's why they hate on it I don't want
to play anymore it's like the child that
throws down the checkerboard
I'm getting beat so bad I can't play so
I throw the game away and I think people
are doing that with money now you know I
mean look at the stat that you gave
earlier about 1% of the people literally
owning more than the entire middle class
combined you know when you're doing all
the right things and I can relate to
this because I watched my mom do all the
right things save the money paid for the
house paid the house off paid the cars
off never stole from anybody you know
plan for retirement she was still
terrified every month are they gonna
stop my Medicare are they gonna stop the
Social Security is the health care plan
gonna change is my cash being invested
right like she was terrified so at some
point you're like I give up you know or
or we try to vote we try to vote for the
right president to somehow solve our
problems and this isn't an American
issue but this happens we're in Brazil
same thing goes on there i go to i go to
dubai they're they're worried about the
same things in two body so i think a lot
of people have given up on the idea they
can change
their condition in life and therefore
they end up doing too little or just
enough to keep a job and to be used by
the system yeah I mean when you look at
these historical low unemployment rates
what I honestly feel is just skewing
these numbers a lot is the whole gig
culture of like uber lyft post mates
whatever else you have all these people
that are technically employed and I
remember uh you know a comedian named TK
Kirkland he's a regular on my show we
had a debate about uber and he goes he
said he claims he knows guys that are
making $2,000 a week driving for uber if
you do an uber eats an uber driving and
you're making 2000 a week because you're
putting in 2 hours
in 2000 you're I don't know anyone who
makes tooth oh I know company make about
2,000 weeks sir
really oh absolutely I have how many
hours a day do they work they have to
work a lot seven days a week seven days
a week but they coming home with $2,000
a week okay I got it
so that's eight grand so my point is
it's a lot of work but me and you
understand what I'm about to say we're
what's your plan and I'm like okay you
got to be literally working 12-hour days
seven days a week to be making mm yeah
driving uber and you know let don't even
count the wear and tear on your car and
the gas and everything else like that
it's not really 2000 a week but you have
all these people that have these jobs
and they're scraping by they feel like
their bosses because they don't have to
punch in but they have a job that has no
trajectory at all if you work at uber
for two years you will not be made a
manager uber spending a billion dollars
losing a billion dollars a year trying
to figure out how to get rid of the
drivers right exactly so so Zach I'm
totally with you on this
first of all three and a half percent
can't get much lower number two wages
haven't changed in America
they have not changed like leg literally
if you look at the if you look at a
graph on wages they're almost flat
little blip lately but but but still not
enough not enough to think that
gravity's not going to pull that number
down again
you got the form the form payrolls are
getting hammered because of wages the
dairy business is up because people
aren't drinking you know they're like
lactose-intolerant now so the milk the
farmers are going out of business over
there those are real jobs if uber gets
rid of drivers like like uber got rid of
taxicabs and their drivers at least in
every other every other city but in New
York if the if the unemployment goes to
five percent from the three and a half
that's a 30% increase there's gonna be a
lot of people hurting in America well I
don't think it's if uber gets rid of
drivers it's when uber that's right for
drivers
I own a Tesla and I use auto drive every
day now that's not fully autonomous but
it's really just one step away yes
already being done and I use it every
day yeah and people in denial about this
glad you know that yeah like there
there's gonna be tremendous automation
in the next years to come that's gonna
replace jobs a hundred percent 100% now
you talked about in the book you said
you have to be obsessed
nobody has ever accomplished something
incredible without obsession and he said
the ability to be obsessed is not a
disease it is a gift yeah and I could
tell you I took a vacation with my
family it was like my first vacation in
like three years and even though I was
supposed to be on vacation every morning
I would log in and the internet was bad
where I was but it didn't matter I
logged in and I worked every morning and
and slipped in some work throughout the
day because I'm completely obsessive
about my business yeah it's not it's not
that I have to do it it's that I want to
do it yeah and this is what you're
talking about I sell yeah and you can't
you can't name a person that you and I
both can share
their names Nick Cannon I know Nick I
mean I don't know Nick but I know of
Nick cuz Nick must be obsessed yeah and
and uh like all the greats just go back
all the way through time these people
become obsessed with their mission and
this is what's missing from the quitters
the people that you talked about earlier
they checked out on the game they threw
the checkerboard down they're like I
quit man I can't win the money game so
so I'm not going to be obsessed with it
the wealthy are obsessed with their
wealth not for the money man not for the
money but for the game and and people
that want success Elon Musk is obsessed
with this electric thing he doesn't care
if it makes money he doesn't care if
he's in the car business twenty years
from now he wants to change the game
yeah and the SpaceX thing let's not
forget that yeah yeah whatever he's
doing he wants he wants to change the
game everyone has that musk in them by
the way like everybody has the genius in
them everybody has a Steve Jobs
everybody's got an Oprah everybody's got
a mother Teresa in them and and the more
I can like be obsessed with whatever my
little gift is well yeah I remember I
interviewed Scott Adams he's the artist
behind the cartoon Dilbert you know I'm
talking about yeah right this is this
has been a mainstay in the newspaper
world for decades at this point you know
very uh you know rich guy I went to you
know really nice house has money and so
forth and he kind of broke it down you
know he had a bunch of New York Times
best selling books on top of it and he
kind of broke it down in an interesting
type of fashion that people people will
say well you're gonna be successful
something you're really passionate at
and you have to find your passion but
but he kind of said well you know you're
passionate about the things that do well
you can make you money yeah and people
seem to like you come more passionate as
more energy builds around these things
like you said that passion is actually
overrated yeah so if if you talk to a
billionaire as often happens when a
billionaire gets interviewed somebody's
going to say
what was your secret to success and what
are these billionaires always say
whether it's Warren Buffett Mark
Zuckerberg Richard Branson they all say
the same thing they say passion follow
your passion that's that's what makes
everything work here's the problem with
that think what else they could have
said instead of that answer could they
say well I'm a billionaire because I'm
smarter than poor people right can't say
that even if it's true right because in
those at least two of those guys that
might be true right you know but Buffett
and Zuckerberg are way smarter than
ordinary people yeah they can't say I
worked hard because they're Gardner
works harder than they do right it's not
helping them become a billionaire so if
you look at all the answers they can
actually give they can't say luck
because then nobody wants to work with
it was like well you just got lucky once
you know what are the odds happens again
yeah so they say the only democratic
thing they can say passion you know they
say that because they think you think
you can get that you could just be so
passionate about something when no one
cares about it and it's literally making
no money yeah you see what I'm saying
Oh Tommen like it's ridiculous it's
ridiculous it's bad it's bad advice for
people to follow their passions like
yeah just because just because you're
passionate about something I was on I
was on a show recently and this kid goes
into his pitch about his business and
why he loves it and he loves this idea
and I'm like yeah bro doesn't matter if
you love it if nobody else meets it
wants it or will pay for it it don't
matter
yeah and I almost feel that knowing when
to quit is more important than knowing
not to quit because you could very
easily just keep hammering your head for
years on something that's never going to
go anywhere but to be able to just say
look I'm cutting my losses this is going
nowhere yeah I'm gonna go focus on
something else
is extremely important more important I
feel yeah that's not quitting though
that's all that's doing is moving this
much shifting your obsession
this thing's not working shifting that
obsession and that energy in that mass
of action to a channel that can work and
everybody is required to make a shift
along the way the vehicle you start on
will not be the vehicle you arrive on
right because you said your career
should be a religious mission yeah and
it and I should I should go through a
series of evolutions so that I'm not you
know I'm I I might not show up on a
horse if I started in 1800 yeah I mean
when you look at a flat TV we are here
to document culture and important
figures during this time for generations
to come
this is what we do so for example one of
my favorite actors was John Witherspoon
he starred in the Friday movies and the
boondocks and so forth I interviewed him
last year and it was basically like a
documentary about his life he told his
life story from beginning to end he
passed away a few weeks ago and this is
the only piece the only interview he has
where he actually tells about his life
when other interviews he's talked about
his movies here and there but to say
here's Rao's born here's how I grew up
this is how I got my first break here's
how my career progressed here's where I
am now this is why I'm still working at
76 years old and so forth that doesn't
exist outside of this flat evey
interview and this is really like what I
feel is the religious mission of what
we're trying to do so I don't really
care how much money gets made right now
I don't care whether people like it
don't like it there's a there's a higher
mission yeah what we're trying to do
here and I feel that most successful
people this is what they do yeah and
then you got to find some things that
pay the bills in the mean time so the
fact that you're doing that nobody else
is going to do it because the networks
can't do that TV because they feel like
it's - promotional to an individual and
the fact that you're doing that man one
it's gonna it's going to provide
long-term value to society and number
two people should get behind you and
supports you look I'm the one that said
am come back to New York let's meet up
because I do know you add value
yeah I mean I looked it up almost 4
million people combined watched our last
interview yes amazing pretty big number
it's a lot of people man yeah
and you know when you look at successful
people I grew up in a town of 40,000
flats so that's like a hundred x-ray
exactly when you look at the most
successful people their time the more
successful someone is the longer their
timeline is meaning that when you look
at the the millionaires and the
billionaires they're looking at what
happens past their lifetime yeah when
you look at the middle class they might
think a year or two in advance and when
you look at the the lower class they're
trying to make it to next week would
that be a fair a fair assessment based
on what you saw you know I remember when
I was worried about one night so I
remember when I couldn't I'm like am I
gonna be able to pay the rent this month
I was 23 years old
I'm not gonna be able to pay the rent
I'm not gonna be late again and then I
remember when I was 25 thinking okay I
am I I think I'm gonna actually make a
hundred grand this year and I was
starting to think in years now and so
again that goes back to that evolution
thing you know now it's like wow what
are people gonna know me for they're
gonna know me for the money I made or
they're gonna know me because I was a
good dude I didn't rip anybody off you
know I had a great career employed a
bunch of people they felt good about it
that I left some advice on this planet
and so I think you're right the more you
get away from money problems the more
you're able to look into the future and
this is what Steve Jobs at the industry
jobs career he says money doesn't matter
but that's not what he was saying when
he was trying to frickin put some money
together right when he was trying to
keep Apple on in the game he went to he
went to his his at that time enemy okay
which was Bill Gates and said Bill I
needed we need to do a deal I need to
borrow some money so here's a guy that
had to put away a lifelong grudge to
keep
his thing in play he had to sell a
little part of his soul so that he could
be the Steve Jobs and and make Apple the
company he knew it could be and he had
to give up on this old idea one that he
wouldn't you you he wouldn't depend on
his old adversary and number two that he
would give up the idea that Apple would
always be just this piece of hardware
and that's when iPhone happened you know
he hung in there so these these people
don't quit you know when you worry when
you're just when you're just like I'm
paying bills this week you've quit on
the dream and this this is what people
in all countries can't afford to do
right now no matter how hard it gets you
can't quit on a little bit of dream you
got a little bit of light you got on
your dream because I'm proof right now
that anybody if you don't quit if you
don't quit if you don't screw people
over if you don't rip people off if you
add more value if you keep showing up
and you keep you know learning from the
right people and you don't throw the
towel in and you can do anything you
want that that is still true today
regardless of how bad it is for you
right now at this moment
well you had a video called five steps
to becoming a millionaire can you break
down those five steps man I don't know
if you if you help me to them right now
I don't know if I could I think I
probably probably number one is do the
math or number one could make a
commitment to be a millionaire number
two do the math okay you basically just
break down 20 years into into a million
dollars that's 50,000 a year most people
are going to make 50 grand this year
median income in America is fifty nine
thousand dollars so if you're only
making 35 it's going to take you 30
years so do the math and then figure out
hey how can I shorten this period of
time up because I do not want to be a
millionaire or make a million dollars
over the next 50 years I want to see if
I can shut that down into like ten years
I don't need it to be get-rich-quick
I need it to be hey I'm gonna get rich
at some time in my life I don't want to
be so
old that I can't enjoy it and I want to
go to take care of the people around me
that I love and care for so I think the
last step was just stay with the deal
don't give up on it but you might know
the five steps better than I do I've
dropped a lot of video all right well
you've said in your book okay well you
said in your book no one will save you
or make you successful and I think
that's one of the the big misconceptions
out there is people feel like you know
if I could just meet that right person
if I could just do that right pitch
because I see a lot of it you know in a
lot of the comments it's like how does
someone raise money to buy a multi-unit
property who's making ten dollars an
hour and it is if you look at this and
you go okay this is this is not a
realistic question you don't know there
is an answer to it you don't bro not
making $10 an hour yeah like like my
dilemma when I bought my first deal I
had the money see people don't even know
all the right questions ask me and
Daymond John talked about this all the
time most people don't even know the
right questions to ask it just shows you
the schools are teaching people nothing
like like why in their class on what are
the right questions to ask someone if
you only make $10 and you want to be in
real estate the right question asked is
who the do you partner with to do a
deal how can you ask Val how can you add
value to somebody that has money that
wants to buy deals the first guy that I
did apartments with he had no money he
was 53 years old with less than 50 bucks
in a bank account I let him tag on deals
for me because I needed a manager I had
the deals and I had the money I didn't
have the time to manage the property and
I did not have the the natural
inclination or skill set to manage real
estate meaning meaning I didn't want to
collect rents I didn't want to fix units
I'm no good with a hammer hammer right I
don't know what the plumbing problem is
I just I don't know any of that stuff
so I gave him an equity position in the
apartments to run manage take care of
the properties the deal was don't steal
from me if you steal from me rip me
then you're not going to get your piece
and I gave him a piece of equity when we
sold I got made millions of dollars
tagging along with me so he made me rich
and I made him richer it was a symbiotic
relationship where we both benefited so
that's what the guy that has ten bucks
should be looking looking to do rather
than rather than what his comment was
which was just another quitter
how am I gonna ever do this for the only
ten dollars
you ain't particularly cuz you got a bad
attitude no only ten dollars well yeah I
mean a lot of people say I've got all
these great ideas but no one to invest
in them and my response is always if you
really believe in your ideas you can
start small you're just waiting to
up someone else's money that's what
you're really saying yeah you want to
mess up someone else's money because you
don't want to mess up your own money but
the reality is black TV will start in a
bedroom with you know the few dollars I
had in my bank account I did everything
I held the camera I did the interviews I
edited the videos I mail to email them
out I did the marketing I did the
uploads when I first had an employee you
know I would pay them myself like it all
just started by just pouring money back
into the company and just scraping by
until you could you could keep how many
rows how many views in your first video
I don't know 20 30 like nothing yeah
nothing no no one saw the vision in the
beginning and people said I remember the
goal was okay we're gonna drop a new
exclusive video seven days a week 365
days a year and everyone said that's
that's stupid no one wants to watch that
many videos just drop one one a week or
one a month and I'll be fine
these days we drop six videos a day yeah
plus a flashback and a full interview
sometimes that sometimes eight videos a
day and honestly I could double that if
I could I just you know for me the
hardest part of my business is hiring
and building a staff yeah that's always
been the hardest that's been the hardest
part from flat TV it's not the content
it's not the audience
it's the hiring and the managing but the
reality is is that you can't really over
expose yourself it's impossible yeah
we live in a we live in a like you you
you that TV can compete with Fox News
today I think we do compete with Fox
News if you look at their YouTube
channel I think that our videos probably
consistently get more views than Fox
News yeah so I mean Fox Business Fox
Business the junior to the pro to their
network you you know you probably get
more views every day than they get with
eyeballs and they got tens of millions
of dollars invested in their in 20 25 or
30 years of a brand and major piece of
real estate in New York so not to
mention what you do to MSNBC and CNN
yeah yeah I mean when you get good
guests like me then you just
you'd tear it off the charts yeah I mean
we get more I look at ESPN numbers on
YouTube we we blow those numbers away
this is a completely it's not it's not a
business with a bunch of VC money behind
it it's all just basically taking the
profits putting it back in and trying to
grow it so that's really the message to
everyone that's waiting for someone to
come save them just start it yourself or
just go I think that there have been
looking for an investor go south go go
sell the product to somebody before it's
finished right and sell it to somebody
you know and what I find somewhat silly
in terms of a lot of the messages I get
is hey I was I want to start a business
like yours can you mentor me yeah and
you go to their page as a private page
with no business and it's like insane
why would I waste my time on someone who
hasn't even started yet as opposed to
hey look I've been working this business
for two years I got up to this point can
you help me out you're like yeah sure I
could bring you I mean we've interviewed
other media companies you know we
brought in like the people like Adam 22
from no jumper or Sean confrim say
cheese TV we try to give back to people
that are hustling but I'm not gonna
waste my time with someone hasn't even
started yet but but we know the guy the
guy had started he's got a social media
channel this private like like why do
you why are you in social media if
you're private do you look at that much
porn
you don't want your girlfriend to see it
seems like the real estate market has
been slowing down for the past I would
say year and a half
would you say that's accurate or no what
kind of real estate you're talking about
residential real estate a houses single
houses
yeah single-family homes yeah they ought
to just die yeah there you go I'm just
trying to get one all the housing in
America would go away so I turn
everybody into a renter yeah
do this all right the reason the reason
is you got you got 70 million people in
America don't that the 70 million baby
boomers that don't need to own a home
they've already owned one they want to
go on a vacation now they're moving into
retirement into the golden age you know
they're not gonna have a house they're
gonna die there what's gonna happen in
the next 20 years is you're gonna have
millions of houses find their way
through the system because mama or daddy
the last living is gonna die in the
house that nobody the kids don't want
the two kids are gonna say what do we
want to do with this and Mike's gonna
say to John sell it
okay good when do we sell it says John
Mike says as fast as we can they put it
on the market they get it all for next
Friday they say let's sell this thing we
don't you care what we get because
anything they get is a hundred percent
more than they had divided by two which
is 50% each so that all they want is
their money dude that means that house
has no bottom to it so number one you
got half of America that the owners of
homes that are getting too old and then
you got this young 89 million babe Jen
Millennials that are like I have no
interest in out at home I want to travel
I want to be mobile so you got half of
America 150 million strong that are like
I have less propensity to own a home
than not and then you got an economy
that if it softens up at all will kill
housing
yeah yeah like I've always said I've got
an apartment in New York and I got a
house in Calabasas and both of my rented
and I have absolutely no problems with
that whatsoever none none and we had one
place in New York we kept it for about a
year and a half we realized we didn't
like it when that lease was over we just
up and moved it was that easy
Bank of America rinse Wells Fargo rents
they rent man they rent they rent where
they work and they lend money out to
people that will buy where they live
what in the 10x book you talked about
getting an unfair advantage can you
explain what that is you you you want to
put yourself in a position at the table
where you can win so you got you got to
assess the other players at the table
what will they do
what will they not do you know it's not
about the cards you have it's about how
to play the cards you have and the way
to play the cards I have is to find out
what will the other guy do or not do so
you know the fact that you're doing Vlad
TV what you're covering you know the
networks won't cover it so it gives you
an unfair advantage me buying real
estate that I can close on without
checking with a board like Blackstone
has to go to a board to get every
approval on a deal at a hundred million
dollars I don't need to check with
anybody gives me an unfair advantage
against an institution it has they have
thousand times more money than I do
so everybody as long as you hadn't quit
as long as you hadn't thrown the towel
in you can as long as you're creative
and committed can figure out what your
competitive unfair advantages is this
similar to what Warren Buffett calls an
economic moat yeah I think it is are you
familiar with that yeah like for example
in the economic when you have a product
that has some sort of value to its
customers where a competitor can't lower
their price yeah
and steal your customers like for
example Nike is a good example yeah it
doesn't
matter if adidas says hey well D this is
actually good competitor but let's just
say if New Balance said hey all of our
shoes are 10% lower than Nikes people
still buy Nikes
yeah is that basically what you're
talking about yeah yeah the mote would
be like like in real estate since you
brought up real estate you know one one
house a house doesn't have a lot of moat
around it a lot of protection right
we're not about 300 units it's got a
swimming pool that's four million
dollars theater security lighting
leasing agents we take care of people
doggie Park those remotes very very
difficult to replace even if the economy
pulls back you're still gonna want some
of those things like security even even
the social environment having 300
tenants on 30 acres that people can
actually have community with one another
for 1,800 bucks a month very very
difficult to replace that in a
single-family home where you have
probably no fence no wall wall is a bad
word right now no fence no pool no
security definitely no social community
to tap into so those are moats right you
want to protect your business the lad
TVs got a moat it's got it's got this
brand
hey I'll deliver eight videos today some
people can't do that and and and so
sometimes a moat in just Apple it's got
big moat around it but but work ethic
can be a moat so mom yo my ability to
spoke my willingness to spend money
million dollars a month in advertising
and to probably generate another eight
million dollars in organic advertising
builds a tremendous moat around me and
my brand and my companies for other
people can't just come take it from me
because they they can't replace easily
what that other company or you are doing
so you spend a million dollars a month
in advertising yeah I'd like to get to a
million a week hmm all right because I
think after doing our interviews and
started to post more
site I actually saw Grant Cardone
banners on my website that's good dinner
did you like them I did good I did you
paid for that that's all good for those
I try to waste as much money as possible
in advertising yeah that's always been
the challenge for Vlad TV we've never
done any advertising you know yeah we
felt it should all be organic but you
know when you look at the big boys none
of them are doing this give it all the
big boys spin one of the questions I had
when I announced that we're doing this
interview someone said what can poor
people do to break the cycle of poverty
number one you got to know that you can
break the cycle you the first most
important thing is you have to make a
decision on breaking the cycle you know
I wasn't born rich I saw I saw I was
born into the middle class I realized it
did not work it's a broken system the
middle class is almost as painful as
poverty constant fear and so the way to
break it is you have to number one make
a decision I'm breaking the cycle and
number two I need to study people that
have broken the cycle like you just said
about you don't advertise okay well you
can brag about it but it's not a good
idea right nobody in the history of the
world ever became big not advertising
like you should be wasting money on ads
everybody should know about Vlad TV you
all right got it
do you or you got a base of people that
want to talk it up for you you know you
you've already turned up all this hate
like how many years you've been doing
this we're going into our 12th year yeah
you got 12 years of putting up with
and and negative comments like
all that is energy because now they know
your name that's all they ever remember
is the name so so if you through if you
threw money at that now the bonfire will
just spread and that's a mistake that I
made Vlad the first 20 years I was in
business before I started doing the
Scientology I was too scared to spend
money it was me go out get money keep
money
herself go ahead and get some more money
keep it for myself go out and keep it
put in a retirement account plan for
when I'm gonna get off the cycle I'm
gonna get off the treadmill I know my
deal is coming to an end soon so I got a
horde my money I was terrified the more
money I got the more scared I got the
money I did not know how to use money
and then you know once I started
removing some of my blocks some of this
would you call it poverty thinking
scarcity what did you call it well the
cycle of poverty yeah the cycle of
poverty
I was stuck in the cycle of poverty even
though I had money like I know I know
people I grew up around people that had
millions of dollars that that would
still cash in for food stamps and we'd
go to Macy's every year and get a new
card under another name to get a 15%
discount that is a poverty mentality
regardless of your bank account and so
number one make a decision to break it
number two you got to start studying
people got to start studying people that
have broken the cycle the chains bill
goat Bill Gates was he was born but to a
wealthy family but he broke the cycle of
his dad's poverty thinking his dad was
just a rich doctor his dad was nowhere
nowhere near the position that Bill
Gates has put himself into because bill
had a much a much bigger wider think
about his responsibility on this planet
right because after our interview after
we started posting I think the first
part and you talked about how when your
dad died he left an insurance file i fin
surance policy that your mom cashed out
everyone's like Oh see this is that
see this guy started out with
it with a big big insurance you know
payout he didn't start from the bottom
you can't compare us to this guy he had
a huge leg up over everybody and it's
like well okay maybe you got a little
bit of money no dude no no no no dude I
didn't get any of that money I was two
wars oh he's just saying in general your
family yeah but yeah we had enough money
for my mom to feed us right so if you
don't have enough money to eat man okay
I have one leg up on you
I mean I had a bicycle too so maybe I
got you I really got a on you I had
a bicycle with air in the tires
I had a 22 rifle back it back to Lake
Charles Louisiana we 15 years old I'm
carrying my rifle out in the woods every
day shooting so I don't know where
we got the ammo from there must have
been some sitting around the house but
it's not like I had any luxuries I had a
roof over my head the air condition
worked I wasn't in a crack house I
admitted all that I didn't I didn't have
a Kayne upbringing nobody beat me up
every day my uncle didn't have sex with
me but I watched my mama clip coupons
and I watched my mom she knew every time
the plumber came over she was gonna get
screwed and if she went out and bought a
car that car had to be 12 years old
before she would trade that car in my
first car was $500 it was a Ford Mustang
so I I didn't say I was dirt poor that I
ate worms from the ground in Nigeria but
but we were terrified about money man we
had a little bit of money my mama had
some money man but we were scared of it
she didn't tell me when she died at 89
years old she would still not tell me
how much money was in that life
insurance she wouldn't tell anybody
because she was terrified if she told
somebody they'd get the money we lived
off a dividend checks that she would get
every quarter and Social Security
whatever that was three or four hundred
bucks every two weeks yeah I actually
looked up I went to social security.gov
and I looked up how much my pension is
going to be and it's like if I cash it
out at 65 I'm gonna be making something
like $750 a month yeah but if I wait
until I'm 70 it goes up to like 1,200 or
1,100 because I guess they're counting
on me to die
those five years and I'm like yo like
I've paid millions of dollars in taxes
over the course of my life and this is
what I get in my retirement $750 it's
like are you serious right now like this
is crazy
yeah like if it's even there to pay you
yeah you know and when you're 80 what's
what's twelve hundred bucks worth when
you're 80 yeah exactly
is that you know in the book you said
focus on now the only time it's
important is now and the future so you
never focus on the past try not to it's
over man what am I gonna do about it
you know psychotics are stuck there it
makes me crazy thinking about yesterday
can't do anything about it
I lost the deal I lost two deals two
days ago what I'm gonna do I can't I
can't keep running it over like what am
I gonna do to put the deal back together
that that's a better thing you know you
get a flat tire man the thing is you you
guys can kill each other about her
hitting the curb and getting the tire
flap somebody's got to change the damn
thing yeah it's uh I see this with
people around me like people would hit a
roadblock and then just shut down you
know like for example I was looking
online and I was looking at furniture
right and because I have to buy some new
furniture for my house so I said okay
well I mean I could buy it in cash but
let's just say I financed it right now
if you let's just say you buy two three
thousand dollars with the furniture you
could pay it off in three months
and you pay no interest or you could pay
it off in 12 months and pay 100%
interest like it almost seems like you
have these programs that will keep the
poor
even poorer if that's even possible a
hundred percent interest so I either pay
two thousand three months or I paid
4,000 in 12 months and if I don't pay
that four thousand twelve months there's
gonna be a bunch of other charges on top
of that and it's like yo the furniture
is only probably worth a thousand bucks
it's such a predatory type of thing
where the people at the bottom just
become roadkill
I think totally Warren Buffett yeah
Warren Buffett even said that he said
that America is low low lowest class
right now is becoming roadkill
do you agree it's uh it's not financial
inequality it is educational inequality
like people are paying playing by a
completely different set of rules
you know the intention the intention of
the poor is to pay the bills because
somebody said hey you can't change your
condition it's not true all you got to
do is ask yourself a different question
who has changed their condition in your
community tell me tell me about somebody
that broke out of urban Baltimore that
that there's not a rapper not a
ballplayer but they broke out they did
something without a scholarship without
any super talents they didn't get lucky
as a rapper and they and they made it
out
like you got to figure out Who am I
gonna mimic Who am I gonna edify Who am
I gonna follow they're probably not on
Instagram they're probably they're
probably running a business how do I get
connected with those people how do I get
out and like like the attention has to
be a commitment to getting out wherever
you are and if but if you think you're
fine or if you think you're stuck then
you are roadkill regardless of where
yeah you could be in the middle class
with memberships to a country club and
to BMWs just got the same issues I know
guys I know guys that are paying so much
interest for their homes their cars
their country clubs and their kids
tuitions I was with a guy on the way
over here paid three hundred fifty
thousand dollars to send his kid to
school and she works at Whole Foods
today
that's roadkill did and remember to feed
the institutions on this planet it takes
more than that many poor people it takes
a lot of middle-class people because
that 1.4 trillion dollars of college
debt that was on the backs of the middle
class well I personally don't believe
that there's a middle class I look I'm
with ideas either as either rich or poor
and the definition of rich is when you
have money that's making you money their
definition of poor is when you're making
enough to pay your bills which doesn't
matter if you're making a hundred
thousand or even two hundred thousand or
fifty thousand if you're not if your
money isn't actually making you money
you are poor that's just it
whereas like there's a famous quote
where it said um hold on I'm gonna pull
this up right now yeah yeah I think if
you don't learn how to earn passive
income you're gonna spend your whole
life earning or dine earning income
exactly it's a Warren Buffett quote man
you love war man you love yeah cuz cuz
dirty he's saying he's practical because
advice is practical okay so here we go
this is a quote by Edgar Bronfman
Bronfman senior who is the owner of
Seagram's yeah with a net worth of 2.6
billion he says to turn a hundred
dollars into $110 work to turn a hundred
million into 110 million is inevitable I
love that love that and the games are
different today because the banks pay
almost nothing you know like when I was
growing up in the 70s the the banks were
paying 10 10 and 11 12 % today they're
paying point 0 1 2 percent that's 12
tenths of 1% it would take eight years
turn one point yeah yeah what do people
do with their money they put it in the
bank they open a checking account or
savings account
to store their money there until they
can send it off to Wall Street yeah yeah
and with interest rates going down I
remember I had my money in something
called the preferred checking account
which was making like 2.5% and then
after the interest rate drops and the
interest rates dropped it went down like
1.73 and I like really like yeah see the
people you're talking about wouldn't
even see the change right they're like
oh throw up their hands I can't do
anything about it so you guys are
watching right now maybe you post in
comments so wherever you want to post it
like I'm not bashing on you I've been
there
Vlad's been there you got to pay
attention you got to pay attention you
got to decide I'm gonna break the cycle
I'm gonna get out of the trap and if you
don't it goes back to what Vlad was
saying earlier you're going to be
roadkill like if you don't get out of
harm's way they will run you over I mean
when you look at what's been happening
like when the crash happened
back in 2008 they lowered interest rates
extremely low and it was supposed to be
a temporary situation 11 12 years later
interest rates are basically still at
zero you can't maintain that forever
from your point of view of someone that
deals with hundreds of millions of
dollars like what's going to happen if
interest rates just stay this low for
the next 5-10 years rates are going
lower my friend
they've been 20 years in Japan they've
been in negative numbers negative zero
that means if you put money in a bank in
Japan today a year from now you end up
with less money than you put in a bank
even if you didn't make a withdrawal
Germany's same case okay you cannot have
World Race with the world Germany and
Japan are competitors for money so if I
can go to Germany and get my money
cheaper than then then here I'm going to
go there and get my money cheaper until
at which point they'll lower here as
well it just shows you the the world the
world is now connected and the consumer
is full of debt and has it just does not
have anything left over at the end of
the month the wealthy get wealthier the
poor get poorer and that will continue
until the poor one at a time make a
decision hey I'm not I'm gonna break the
cycle here for me I can't break you for
everybody I can't you know everybody
that hears this less than 1% of the
people that see this today will take
advantage of it 99% will critique it
maybe comment on it hate on it judge it
find out where I was wrong find out
where you were wrong
less than 1% will say hey I gotta wake
up I got to change what I'm doing and I
got to start paying attention to my
money just that little thing that you
just said from two point five to one
point seven that's a massive change in
what they were paying you and and and
you saw it and then you got to figure
out okay where am I gonna go to protect
my money this now mine at least
temporarily my money where can I go to
start earning five or six percent a year
so that my money can grow and I don't
lose it while it's growing yeah because
that's actually lower than inflation
that's right technically I'm losing
money every day by having it in this
interest-bearing account which is way
higher than any checking account and the
reason you have it at that Bank or
whatever Bank is because somewhere along
the line you and I were convinced that
banks are safe and then we should keep
some cash we should have a cushion and
the cash is king when the truth is is
just pieces of paper that are garbage
they're worthless until they're
recirculated until they're leveraged
your money bro would be better off
buying ads then sitting at Wells Fargo
hmm I feel you I feel you so how much
you say no right now I'm sorry how much
you sitting on a few dollars a few
dollars enough to afford this nice
office
right now uh I'd like you I don't I
don't plaster all my my finances to the
world I don't think I didn't plaster man
either yeah well you gave a little more
info than I did okay okay so what's next
for Grant Cardone I'm gonna go to dinner
that's what I knows next okay
business-wise what's next for you uh
well we're here in the city doing some
things a couple of interesting projects
we're looking at doing I'm definitely
gonna buy some more real estate we'll
get that that should be at two billion
dollars by 2020 keeping in mind that my
first deal started with three grand
that's a pretty big move over even
though it took 30 years but we got some
TV interest and some some stuff that uh
that we might do and we got our our
annual event in Vegas this year our 10x
growth conference Mandalay Bay
convention will that thing's almost sold
out and I got another book or two of me
yeah I mean we talked about one of the
interviews you just put out and you guys
you and the guy that was interviewing
you who worked for you was saying how
even though you don't have to work
there's something within you that you
want to work that something that you
love where you could just you have more
money than you could spend right now but
yet you're in love with the actual work
itself which is what gets you up every
morning and has you doing all these
multiple projects look if you gave me
more money tomorrow I'd still show up at
work so find a billion dollars if I had
ten billion dollars given to me anymore
I'd we got go to work so it's what I did
it's it makes me feel good I like doing
it I like contributing I think you know
if you have kids you see your kids they
they they wanna they want to mimic you
they want to do things they want to you
know you play with the phone they play
with the phone you put your shoes on
they want to put shoes on like it's I
think that's what we're all trying to
contribute we're trying to give back and
there's not a person listening right now
that doesn't want to help somebody else
out
and if any of you that are listening
right now are watching you you get into
a position where you can help other
people out in life because you did
something right or you learned how not
to do something you're probably going to
feel some inclination to want to help
other people out and and look I overcame
a drug problem that that almost killed
me so I know I know that people can get
off of drugs I didn't have any money at
25 years old none zero I was broke I was
in debt I got out of that situation I
hated a sales job I had at 26 years old
I figured out how to fall in love with
the sales job as hard as that is to
believe I've always wanted to write a
book you know if you write your first
book it's not easy but I've written
eight of them I always wanted to write
them one um Zinn New York Times
bestseller okay the other seven sold
more books than 95% of all books have
ever sold so I've done some things that
that people told me I couldn't do my
first real estate deal was one house I
owned a bunch of real estate today did
at one time I couldn't didn't think I
could land the right girl for my life
that I was gonna I was going to end up
with a bunch of girls in my life that I
didn't didn't respect and didn't want to
spend my time with and I finally got the
right girl two beautiful children and I
think something I I feel good about
myself
I remember Vlad when I was 16 17 18 19
or 20 years old I hated myself I had
zero self-worth none today today when I
wake up for the most part I feel you
know on a scale from 1 to 100 I'm like
I'm gonna give myself a 94 today better
than my grades in college that's what it
is Grant Cardone
you're the man danger always a pleasure
I appreciate you reaching out ok this
time and I mean you can't wait to do it
again you got it brother be great no
doubt peace